## SimplCalc Interpreter

The SimplCalc Interpreter is a Python program designed to interpret and execute scripts written in the SimplCalc language. SimplCalc is a simple scripting language with support for basic prefix arithmetic operations, variable assignment, conditionals, loops, and printing.

### Features

* **Variable Assignment:** Define variables using the `(define <variable> <expression>);` syntax.
* **Arithmetic Expressions:** Perform arithmetic operations such as addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division.
* **Conditionals:** Use if statements `(if <condition> : <statement>);` to execute code conditionally.
* **Loops:** Utilize while loops `(while <condition> : <statement>);` for repetitive tasks.
* **Printing:** Print variable values and expressions using the `(print (<content>));` syntax.

### Getting Started

#### Prerequisites

* Python 3.x installed on your system.

#### Installation

1. Clone the SimplCalc Interpreter repository:

```
git clone https://github.com/ItsSnirLevi/SimplCalc.git
```

2. Navigate to the project directory:

```
cd PL_Project-SimplCalc
```

#### Usage

* Option 1: Run the interpreter with your script
1. Write your SimplCalc script in a text file, e.g., `script.txt`. There is also an example script (`example_script.txt`) you can try.
2. Run the interpreter with your script:

```
python interpreter.py script.txt
```

3. View the output generated by the interpreter.


* Option 2: Write in interactive mode
1. Run the inrepreter:

```
python interpreter.py
```

2. In interactive mode, you can type commands directly, and they will be interpreted immediately.
3. Type `exit` or `quit` to leave the interactive mode.

### Examples

Here are some examples of SimplCalc scripts you can try:

1. **Simple Arithmetic:**

```
(define x 10);
(define y 20);
(print (+ x y));
```

2. **Conditional Statement:**

```
(define x 10);
(if (< x 15) :
  (print ("x is less than 15"));
);
```

3. **While Loop:**

```
(define x 0);
(while (< x 5) :
  (print (x));
  (define x (+ x 1));
);
```

### Notes
a. The left bracket must be right before the keyword (no spaces between the bracket and the keyword), e.g., use `(define x 0)` and not `( define x 0)`.  
b. There must be a space before a bracket, e.g., use `(print (x))` and not `(print(x))`. It doesn't matter how many spaces there are, e.g., `(print   (x)  )` works too.  
c. When writing one block of code, the `;` is not necessary (but it doesn't hurt), e.g., `(print (x))`. But when there are multiple lines they should be sperated by `;`, e.g.,
  `(while (< x 5) : (print (x)); (define x ( + x 1)); )`. Note the `while` statement doesn't have a `;` but the lines of code in the block inside are separated by `;`.  
d. You can comment out lines with `#`.  

### Contributing

Contributions are welcome! If you find any issues or have suggestions for improvements, please open an issue or create a pull request on GitHub.
